[MUSIC]
>> So what you can see here right now, is
the Python Standard Library.
Which is on the .Python.org website.
And you can find it also by search on
Google, or Bing, or Yahoo, or whatever.
And you'll see this page here, and you'll
see the basic overview of Python.
And numbers one to six, we've already
covered.
But number seven onwards, are the standard
library which you can import.
And so the one's we're going to be looking
at is going to
be datetime, and we're also going to be
looking at system as well.
And I would recommend that you read
through all of these
at some point and see what is actually
possible with Python,
cuz it is a very powerful language, and so
being able
to find what's actually available for you
to use is very useful.
And so here we go with the system and
with.
Date each time, so first of all with date
time, it allows us to
manipulate dates and times in as it says
here in both simple and complex
ways and I'm only gonna show you the
simple way of doing it, simply
because I'm just gonna give you an
overview of what a module can actually do.
Rather than showing you how to use the
date time
module, and then we'll also be looking at
the system.
And the system and probably the OS one as
well because it allows us to
interact slightly more with the actual
Python modules than the daytime will.
So the first thing I'm going to do is
go to import, and I'm going to import the
datetime.
And then from there, I'm just going to get
the current time right now, which is going
to be.
And now is equal to datetime.datetime.now.
And then just print now, and the time
right now
is, the 13th of July, 2012 at one
minute past five, so that is the time now,
and if I run it again.
And you'll see the times changing
slightly.
Now, one thing in which I find useful in
using
this actually for, is if we had to, a
program running.
Now, this isn't a real program which
you're building, but it allows you to say,
what I would actually use it for.
It allows us to work out a difference and,
between the times
in which is took for a certain piece of
code to run.
And then from there we can work out where
a problem might be within our code, and I
can
then, work on it a bit more to try and
make it more efficient for example.
So, [SOUND] the way in which you do that
is you
get the time in the beginning, you get the
time at
the end, and you do the end minus the
start, and
it tells you how long it takes for it to
run.
So, here it took 0.1 second, 0.12, 0.17
seconds, and you
can see it's roughly the same every single
time it runs.
Oops, and so, that would show me that this
is quite an efficient program.
However, if I was having it run and do
something in the
middle or, if I was to make it run
significantly more often
and then move in that again.
You'll see a bit longer, it takes longer
for it to load, and when
it does finish then the time down here is
going to be significantly bigger.
Okay, probably shouldn't have chosen that
big of number
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So what I'm going to do here, is I'm going
to print out what the number is each time.
So that way it's adding a bit of extra
time onto it.
I'm going to put that down to just 10,000
and run it again.
And you can see that took null point one
five seconds.
And, you can see each number added printed
out there.
That way if I was to remove that, so null
point 155 is the time it took.
That's to remove that and print it again.
You see it's 0.016.
It's significantly shorter and so that
shows
me that this is more efficient to run
that it would be if I was to run it
printing it out every single
time, and also printing out every single
time is not an efficient way of doing
it in terms of readability because there's
just
going to be 10,000 lines printed
instantly, basically.
And so I can, I can work out from that,
that I shouldn't really
be printing out every single time but
maybe every thousandth times if I needed
to.
So, that's one example in which we could
use this.
There's many different ways in which we
could use it,
and that's just one way in which I use the
datetime.
Also, I'm going to show you the import and
then we're going to show you system.
Now system allows us to show several
different things
and the full list is available on the
Python website.
The one I'm going to be showing you is the
path.
Now the path is a variable that contain
within the system and it needs to all of
the, like compile those that we have and,
installed, like Java, Python in this case.
Maybe page, page paid modules save which
you might have compiled using Zend.
Anythings like that.
So here, we're getting quite a lot of
different
frameworks that are appearing, and this is
all of the,
this is all of the actual modules which
are appearing.
I mean all of the the path variables which
are there.
Now we also have sys.name.
So, so I was thinking os.name.
If we swap that over, you'll see that it's
called posix or something.
Now, I'm not sure why it's called posix,
that's just
the special name which is given to, Mac OS
X Lion.
If I was on Snow Leopard it would be
different,
if I was on, Mountain Lion it would change
again.
I'm not to sure why, they have these weird
names but [INAUDIBLE] identify for the
actual operation system.
For example if I were on windows, it would
say nt for Windows Vista and Windows
7 I think, so there, the, it changes
constantly depending on which version your
on, so.
I wouldn't go off the OS.name as being the
actual Operating System as such.
But, I would use OI, OS to tell me so if I
needed to do something
conditional between say Windows and Unix
then it
allows me to differentiate between the two
quite easily.
So, that is all I have for you on using
the standard the library.
I would recommend that you'd go through
the webpage which I showed you before.
And I'll show you again.
The webpage is docs.python.org/library and
if you read
through this you'll find lots of very
useful
pages or which contain information which
you will
find very useful within your time
programming with Python.
So that's all I've got to view in this
video.
So thank you for watching and I will see
you soon.
[MUSIC]